# ZENZO Forge REST API

## The Basics
**Description:** This is a guide into the basics of how the ZENZO Forge REST API functions and how to interact with the API using [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/downloads/).

The Forge REST API uses `POST` HTTP requests, with some endpoints being public and unauthenticated. Other endpoints are private, requiring an `auth` token that gets randomly generated everytime a Forge Node restarts.




## Setting up the environment
1. Ensure you have the latest version of the [ZENZO Forge](https://github.com/ZENZO-Ecosystem/zenzo-forge/releases) running.
2. Download [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com/downloads/).
3. Run and setup Postman. Then hit **"New"**, followed by **"Request"**, and then set **"GET"** to **"POST"** and add **"Content-Type"** as **"application/x-www-form-urlencoded"**.
4. Add the root host to the endpoint (this should be `http://localhost` for most people).




## How to use the API
First, you must decide which API **Endpoint** you want to call. For instance, calling `/forge/items` is the "Forge Items" endpoint, which returns a list of all known ZENZO Forge Items (ZFIs).

Some APIs require additional information, such as **Body** keys and properties. You can add/remove Body properties with the "**Body"** tab and checking the `x-www-form-urlencoded` option.

For example, using the `/forge/smelt` endpoint requires an **"auth"** and a **"hash"** key. The "auth" is the authkey generated by the local Forge Node (found in the debug console) and the "hash" key is the TX-ID of the item you want to smelt.




## Endpoints list

### :unlock:**Public APIs (No Auth Required)**

#### ZENZO Forge Items 
> Returns a list of **all** known items on the network
- Endpoint: `/forge/items`

#### ZENZO Forge Inventory 
> Returns a list of items owned by the local node. e.g., the node's inventory
- Endpoint: `/forge/inventory`

#### ZENZO Forge Profiles 
> Returns a list of **all** known ZENZO Profiles on the network
- Endpoint: `/forge/profiles`

#### ZENZO Forge Profile 
> Returns a single profile by its **Username** or **Address**
- Endpoint: `/forge/profile`
- Body key "name": (text, the name or address of the profile to search for)

### :lock:**Private APIs (Auth Required)**

:warning:**WARNING: Only use these locally! If your auth-key is found publicly, your funds are at severe risk.** 

### Account 
> Returns general information of the node and its user: Address, Balance, & Wallet Version
- Endpoint: `/forge/account`

Body Key | Type | Description
------------ | ------------- | -------------
auth | text | the authentication key generated by the node

### Create 
> Crafts an item, creating a custom ZENZO Forge Item
- Endpoint: `/forge/create`

Body Key | Type | Description
------------ | ------------- | -------------
auth | text | the authentication key generated by the node
name | text | the display name of the item (must be between 1-50 characters in length)
image | text | the URL of the item's image (cannot be empty, use "default" for the default item cover)
amount | number | the value in ZNZ of the item (must be atleast 0.01 ZNZ)
metadata | custom | you may store 2 KB of custom data in an item (must not exceed 2KB)
contract | JSON obj | keys are the names of each contract, property is the contract instructions (must not exceed 1KB)

### Transfer 
> Transfers an item to another Address
- Endpoint: `/forge/transfer`

Body Key | Type | Description
------------ | ------------- | -------------
auth | text | the authentication key generated by the node
item | text | the TX-ID of the item to transfer
to | text | the Address to transfer the item to

### Smelt 
> Smelts an item, destroying it and returning the ZNZ-backed value to the user)
- Endpoint: `/forge/smelt`

Body Key | Type | Description
------------ | ------------- | -------------
auth | text | the authentication key generated by the node
hash | text | the TX-ID of the item to smelt
